on to 13 through 25.
The Jewish Passover was near, and so Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
In the temple, he found people selling oxen, sheep, and doves, and he also found money changers sitting there.
After making a whip of cords, he drove everyone out of the temple with their sheep and oxen.
He also poured out the money changers' coins and overturned the tables.
He told those who were selling doves, get these things out of here.
Stop turning my father's house into a marketplace.
His disciples remembered that it is written, zeal for your house will consume me.
So the Jews replied to him, what sign will you show us for doing these things?
Jesus answered.
destroy the temple and I will raise it up in three days.
Therefore the Jews said, this temple took 46 years to build and you will raise it up in three days.
But he was speaking about the temple of his body.
So when he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this and they believed the scripture and the statement that Jesus had made.
While he was in Jerusalem during the Passover festival, many believed in the name when they saw the signs he was doing.
Jesus, however, would not entrust himself to them since he knew them all and because he did not need anyone to testify about man, for he himself knew what was in a man.
This is the word of the Lord.
You may be seated.
Thank you, Les, for reading the Scripture this morning to us.
And good morning to everyone.
Welcome to you if you're watching online this morning, or if you are live in the room, it's wonderful to have here.
Thank you for braving the elements.
They weren't as bad as we thought they would be, right?
So that's a good thing.
All right, so let's see if we're connected.
Are we connected?
All right, great.
We've been in a series, and the series is called
so that you may believe, and we're walking through the Gospel of John.
Last week, our pastor taught on the wedding of Cana, and the first miracle that Jesus performs.
Now we have Jesus and his disciples traveling to Jerusalem for the Passover.
We're about to read a story that's very unusual.
It stands out in Jesus' ministry, in my perspective.
It's in all four Gospels.
The time is around 30 A.D.
And we're about to see some emotion from Jesus.
Now, many times when we think about Jesus in emotion, many times people think, meek, kind, gentle, loving.
But Jesus was the God man.
He was the incarnate God.
He had a vast array of emotions.
And we're about to see a different emotion from Jesus, a holy righteous anger from Jesus.
And this is where we're going to discover.
Why was he so angry?
And not only that, what about us in 2026?
What can we learn from the story and what can we apply to our lives?
To begin our time, if you could stand to your feet so we can have a word of prayer.
Let's pray.
God, we come before you this morning.
And as we read this story, will you help us to experience what you experienced?
Will you help us to see what you saw and hear what you heard?
I pray for all of us.
We're on a different spot spiritually.
I pray that you would give us the ears to hear.
And you would open our hearts and our minds to the things that we need to learn and apply to our lives.
And Jesus, I pray you help us to believe.
For the very first time, or more fully and deeper.
And Jesus, stay in my pray.
Amen.
You may be seated.
morning, we're going to be opening up to the Gospel of John chapter 2 starting in verse 13.
I'll be reading from the Christian standard version of the Bible.
I invite you to take out your copy of the Scripture.
Also take out your Westwood app for our notes so we can follow along as we do this.
We're going to talk about the what first.
Less read the Scripture.
And we're going to start in verse 13.
Here it says, the Jewish Passover
We're going to look at this word Passover was near.
And so Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
In the temple he found people selling oxen sheep and doves and he also found money changers.
After making a whip, keyword making a whip out of cords, he drove out everyone in the temple.
with their sheep and ox and he also poured out the money changers, coins and overturn the tables.
This is Jesus' first public appearance in Jerusalem as the Messiah.
This word Passover is very important because Jesus was a Jew and Jesus was attending the annual feast.
to remember the deliverance from Egypt.
The Jews from all over the world swelled into the city.
Picture this, 150 to 300,000 Jews in this city alone and became a large social gathering.
And then it says this, they went up to Jerusalem.
Jerusalem is built on tells us 2,500 feet above sea level because of the destruction, the rebuilding
of Jerusalem.
And to this day, people still go up to Jerusalem.
Matter of fact, many Jews today are experiencing something called making Aliyah, making Aliyah.
It's a return to the Holy Land.
It's so that they can go back to becoming an Israel citizen.
The word go up, Aliyah is translated, ascend, go up.
They're ascending.
They're ascending spiritually to back to their roots, back to Jerusalem.
And there's a mass infiltration of Jews going back into Jerusalem and Israel.
Verse 14, the scripture says this.
In the temple he found people selling oxen.
The temple, this is the second temple.
Okay, Andrew, this was built by Herod and the year was 516 BC.
516 BC.
This temple was 140,000 square meters.
It covered the temple mount.
And it says this, they were selling animals to be sacrificed during the Passover.
This was required for purification for sins to bring them rightness with God.
Many times when these Jews would come to these places and present their animals, these animals, they've been raising since they were small.
But religious leaders would say, look, it's not holy enough.
It's not blameless and spotless enough.
But here's one of ours.
And they would charge them exorbitant mounts of money.
And this was going on year after year.
And there were money changers there, you can imagine.
Because people from all over the known world were bringing their currencies in, different currencies, and they were gouging to people.
There was financial corruption there.
People were being taken advantage of in significant ways.
This was all occurring in the Gentile court.
I'm about to show you a picture in a minute.
Picture in the Gentile court, their animals, some were worshiping, some were gouging people with their money,
It was a place of spiritual disorder.
There was noisiness.
There was people buying and selling.
So why was Jesus so angry?
Why was Jesus so angry?
Jesus remembered since his childhood.
He remembered since his childhood that his parents would go back to this temple and his parents would experience people gouging them over and over again.
And he was upset about this.
He's very upset about this.
He was also upset to see people going through the motions spiritually, just going through the motions spiritually.
He was also upset that people were willing to go in and disrupt a worship service with her own agendas.
He was upset.
Let's go to verse 15.
After making a whip out of cords,
after making a whip.
He didn't bring a whip.
He made a whip.
He spent time to go away.
He didn't bring one.
It didn't say he whipped them either.
It says he drove them out, pushed for thousands of people and animals, Romans and Jews being driven out of the Gentile court of the temple.
And then he started overturning tables and coins.
Remember he was a carpenter.
He worked with stone.
He was strong.
He was overturning these tables.
What was he saying when he was overturning these tables?
He was saying this.
I will be the final sacrifice.
I will pay for your sins."
This is a picture of Jesus' eternal authority and final judgment.
What a picture.
Can you imagine being there?
Verse 16.
He told those who were selling doves, get these things out of here.
Stop turning my father's house into a marketplace.
In the gospel of Mark, you'll hear, you'll see this language, a den of robbers.
The den of Roberts is actually a prophecy from Jeremiah 711.
Write that down in your notes.
Jeremiah 711, from the seventh century.
And it says this, I love this language.
The disciples remembered that it was written, zeal for your house will consume me.
The word zeal in the Hebrew is kana.
Everybody say kana.
Kana, beautiful.
Kana has translated this.
It's to be flushed.
intense passion.
Listen to this one, remember this one.
A fire-like devotion.
A fire-fire-like devotion.
This is, it consumes me.
The Hebrew is to eat up to devour.
It's like when you're eating a meal and you're starving to death, you're consuming a meal.
Let the zeal of the Lord eat up devour me.
Consume me.
This was a prophecy from Psalm 69, 9.
Psalm 69, 9.
This was David's appeal for true worship, saying this, I just want you, God, nothing else.
I just want you from the 10th century.
King David was speaking of the coming Messiah and then the son of David spoke these words, your house,
When David wrote these words, it was a tabernacle.
It was like a portable church moving around.
But now when Jesus was on the earth, it was actually a temple.
It's where God lived.
It's where people met with God, at least to get as close as they could to God.
I had a picture of the temple, as you see it's not working up there, but the Gentile court was the surrounding court of the temple.
And it's where all this action was happening.
Now let's go to verse 18.
So the Jews reply to him, what sign will you show us for doing these things?
When Jesus says, so the Jews reply to him, who is he referring to?
These were the unbelieving religious Jews, the rabbis, the Sanhedrin, the Pharisees.
They were there for an earthly blessing.
And they questioned Jesus.
Can you imagine questioning Jesus?
Hey, Jesus, what sign are you gonna show me?
You ever do that in your life?
I need a sign right now.
I'm not sure if I believe you.
And maybe their motives are pure.
I don't know if they're asking for a sign.
In verse 19, he says, Jesus answered them.
He probably cleared his throat and went, okay, patience, patience.
He says, destroy this temple and I'll raise it up in three days.
Maybe he said this temple, maybe he did this with his finger and maybe they didn't even notice.
I don't know.
But destroy this temple and I will, and I will raise it up in three days.
He knows the word I will, the words I will,
It was speaking of a future day.
He was playing the seats.
Guess what?
In three years, you're going to see.
You may not believe now, but wait for three years.
I'm going to overcome death and I'm going to rise from the dead.
Let's go to verse 20.
Therefore, how would the Jews respond to that point?
How would you respond to that?
Therefore, the Jews said, this temple took 46 years to build, and you said you're going to raise it in three days.
It took us 46 years.
They didn't get it or they didn't want to get it.
Ever that way with God?
God, I don't get it.
With a pure heart, or God, I don't want to get it.
Wherever that was, they were being distant from what Jesus was trying to teach them.
Verse 21, but he was speaking about the temple of his body.
They were missing a holy moment.
They were missing the very presence of God.
He was right there.
He was right with them, and they were missing it.
Can you imagine that moment?
Verse 22, let's go to verse 22.
So when he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he said this.
And they believed the scriptures and the statement Jesus made.
You know as John was speaking of the future.
So when he was raised from the dead, John was writing this gospel and he was reflecting back to what was said by Jesus.
And they believed the scripture.
I love this phrase, his disciples remember.
This is the second time this is mentioned.
His disciples remembered.
These disciples were followers of God.
They knew the scripture, they knew the Torah, they knew the prophets.
Scripture was in them.
It was being reminded in their brains by God.
That's why it's so important for you and I daily to get in the scripture.
So the Holy Spirit can bring back those scriptures to us in the moment of need.
Now let's go to verse 23.
While he was in Jerusalem during the Passover, many believed
in his name and they saw the signs he was doing, the scripture he says, many believe.
They believed in Jesus and his gospel.
Their response was, I just want you.
I don't care about all this other stuff, all the noise, all the pageantry.
I don't care about the religious gymnastics people are doing.
I just want you, nothing else.
And it says, in Jesus, however, would not trust to them
says He knew them all.
What does this mean?
And trust not entrusted to them.
It means this.
It was a contrast to many who believed.
Basically, these are the people who didn't believe.
And Jesus knew it.
And He wouldn't give Himself to people.
Jesus never forces Himself on people.
He will never give Himself to people who don't believe.
And maybe you're there here this morning.
And I just want to say, I'm so glad you're here.
And maybe you're searching for truth and you're wondering who Jesus is.
He will not force his way into your life if you're watching right now online.
He won't force his way into your life, but he's there for you.
He loves you.
He wants to entrust his life to you.
And listen to this verse.
Jesus knew what was in man or woman or humankind.
Is that humbling?
He knows our motives.
See, we can put on a show on the outside and try to fake people out.
But people know what's going on inside our hearts.
We can fit our spouse out, our kids out, our coworkers out, our fellow church people out here.
But God knows what's in our hearts.
He knows our motives.
So let's go to the what.
The first fill in the blank you can go to your westward notes is this.
What needs to be driven out or overturned in your life?
Write that down.
What needs to be driven out or overturned in your life
Maybe you're here and you're a Christian and there are things in your life.
You have some issues and some struggles right now that need to go because they're holding you back spiritually.
And maybe you will admit it.
Maybe you won't admit it.
And maybe your heart's getting a little hard with that.
And some of you know it.
It's really clear what's going on in your life.
And others of you, maybe you're oblivious to it.
And others are trying to point out in your life.
And they're saying, I love you.
I see this in your life.
Listen to me.
I'm going to come alongside you.
And they're trying to get your attention.
And this is what you're saying.
Hey, I'm okay.
I'm good.
I'm good, man.
But you're not good.
And there are things that may be driven out and overturn in your life.
Maybe some of you have rationalized something so long in your life over time, and it's just to become numb to it or hardened to it.
Or you've given up to it.
Or you've just given yourself over to it.
You're like, I'm tired of fighting it.
I just don't want to fight it anymore.
And here are some things maybe that you've given up on, and you've turned yourself over to.
Which one of these is ringing true in your heart right now?
I can circle three or four of these personally.
Spiritual apathy.
Pride.
Fear.
Greed, gluttony, laziness, sexual sin, comfort, unforgiveness, envy, bitterness.
And maybe God's been trying to drive things out in your life.
And you're mad at him.
God, how could you do this to me?
And he's trying to reveal himself to you.
And maybe you're mad at other people in your life because they're on the side of God.
God wants to use this process of sanctification in our life.
He will do things in our life sometimes to drive things out in our life and to turn things over.
And it may make us mad and maybe you're mad right now.
I just want you to try to reconsider what that could look like for you.
I have a really good friend.
I've known him since I was a kid.
I grew up in Vermont, near Canada, where there's a little more colder weather right now.
We went to high school together.
He was a year older than me, and Robbie went off to Arizona State, and I went off to Auburn University.
And Robbie went off, and Robbie was a good looking guy.
He was actually a model on the campus.
They had a calendar, and he was one of them.
the models on the calendar.
He lived the party life.
He enjoyed the college life outside of Jesus.
A lot of girlfriends, a lot of activities that probably dishonored God.
He was in this relationship with this girl and the relationship broke off and he was just devastated and broken and empty and brought down to the bottom of his life.
And sometimes that's what God does.
He brings us to brokenness into the very bottom because he loves us.
Robbie started searching out world religions and different belief systems.
And he just kind of didn't really see much truth that he could connect with there.
And he remembered his father gave him a Bible before he left for college.
And he told Robbie, he said, son, he said, this has been a, this has been a compass to me my whole life.
Read it.
And it just so happened, Robbie remembered the Bible and he pulled it out.
He started reading it.
He started watching Charles Stanley on TV.
A guy named Shane just so happened stepped into his life who was a Christian.
He started going to a church.
He gave his life to the gospel of Jesus and Jesus.
And his whole life started.
And he saw it with different eyes.
He had different desires.
I remember I went up to Vermont for a winter break in college and we were at a restaurant.
And I just so happened to run into Robbie.
and Robbie and I were catching up.
And what's going on, David?
How are you?
We started talking.
And he was the first one to bring it up.
He said, I got to tell you what's going on in my life.
I'm a Christian now.
And I've had a radical
Life changed.
My life has been turned over, David.
And he started talking to me all that God was doing in his life.
And I said, well, this has been going on with me and operating.
God's turned in my life over too.
And we just became soul maces.
So we left.
We went back to school.
So I want to encourage him spiritually.
So I sent him these little cassette tapes with these Christian songs on him in the mail.
He wrote like a set.
And he listened to these songs from all these artists.
And he's going to church.
And he's learning and growing.
And we reconnect over and over again.
Long story short.
Robbie left college and became a missionary.
He traveled around the world during the Gospel of Jesus.
And right now he is a minister and he lives in Thailand.
He's married.
He's got two beautiful kids.
Jesus turned Robbie's life over radically.
And every time I talk to him and I communicate to him, he inspires me.
And Robbie, if you're watching this, I love you, man.
So much, so thankful for what God's done in your life.
Second point on your app there.
Here's the second question.
What consumes you in your life most?
What do you caught up in most?
What eats you deep inside?
What devours you most?
What are you most obsessed with?
What are you desiring?
What are you engrossed in the most?
Ralph Waldo Emerson said this.
A man is what he thinks about all day long.
What consumes your mind?
I just want
And if we were to do this search history in your mind, like on your phone, what would be in that search history?
I just want, here's some things what you may want, a job to be married, children, hobby, money, fun, social media, to be physically fit, a social cause to get behind.
All of these things aren't bad, but when they consume, when they devour your mind,
when you just want that more than anything else that takes the spot of God.
And it's getting in the way of all of us growing spiritually.
It's filling up our life.
It's eating down and devouring us.
Is Jesus consuming you?
Colossians 3-2, look at this verse.
Colossians 3-2.
It says, set your mind on things above.
Not unearthly things.
The word set is for Neo in the Greek.
It means this, to direct or exercise.
So set your minds on things above.
Direct or exercise your minds.
Direct your mind.
Direct your mind on things above, on a greater kingdom.
Not on this earth.
Paul was writing to the church of Colossae.
He was running from a Roman prison.
He was being consumed by the prison by prison guards.
He was being consumed by the Roman culture.
He was trying to write in and outside of that culture to this church in Colossae.
He was writing into false teaching.
He was writing into persecution.
He was writing into trials.
He's saying, don't let all those things consume you.
Let there be a greater consumption in your life.
Let the greater kingdom in God consume you.
He was writing these words and we can apply these things to our lives as well.
All right.
Now, let's continue on.
Let's go to point number three.
Here's the third question to ask ourselves.
Has Jesus entrusted himself to you?
Jesus entrusts himself to people who believe in him.
And like people then, people are the same way today.
Many people like to get things from Jesus and he likes what Jesus can do for us when we're in trouble and when we want something,
but they don't give their lives to Him and they use Him just like people then and they want signs.
And maybe you're here this morning and you're so close, but you're so far away.
You can show up for these religious gatherings.
You know what to say in the dude.
You get caught up in the crowds and the traditions and all these things.
But don't you know and listen here some good news.
You can go from the outer Gentile court into the holy of holies.
You don't have to stay far away from God.
You can get close to Him.
And guess what?
As a Christian, we are the temple.
We are the holy of holies.
If you're a Christian here, you're watching online, the Holy Spirit lives inside of you.
We don't have to be far away from God.
He lives in us.
He lives through us.
He is our life, and that's incredible, incredible news.
So the now what?
The now what?
The first thing that take away I want to encourage you is this.
Give your life to Jesus.
Trust in Him, and He will entrust Himself to you.
Write that down.
Trust in Him, and He will entrust Himself to you in your life.
Here's a couple of things, salvation.
For some of you, you've never given your life to Jesus.
Truly, there's never been this Robbie experience where you're like, my goodness, my world is blown.
I'm different.
I can't keep it in.
I can't live the same way I used to.
Maybe that's you, or maybe you need to get baptized.
You're watching these baptisms up here and you're like, oh, that was so nice.
It's a dad and a mom and it's, oh, yeah, yeah, oh, praise God.
And you've never been baptized.
It's a public proclamation of your faith to say, it's a coming out party.
I'm not ashamed.
Jesus, I've died in my old self.
I've come out.
I'm a new creation in Christ.
Maybe that's you.
The second takeaway is this, the now what?
Give your life to a zeal for this house.
Next weekend, we're going to have a membership class at 1045 in the room directly behind us.
And it's called Discover Westwood.
And you get a chance to interact with some staff and learn about what it means to be a member of our church.
And some of you have been coming to our church a while.
And maybe it's your time now.
It's January, a new year.
And maybe it's your chance to say, my end is going to be in.
This is my place.
This is my house.
I want to be consumed.
I want to be zealous about this house.
I want to be a part of this.
give your life to a zeal for this house.
I want to recognize two groups of people.
The first group, I want to say, for those of you who give financially to our church, thank you.
We're really grateful.
Thank you for your sacrifice that you make to help us do this thing we call Westwood.
The second group of people, we're going to do something a little different.
If you are a leader in our church, if you're a deacon, church council, committee, small group leader, serving the children's teenagers, you hold the door,
You serve coffee, you push buttons on what you stamped your feet.
Come on, stand up if you serve in this church.
Stand up.
Come on, come on, stand up.
If you serve, stand up.
Can we zealously thank these guys for what they do in this place?
There's room for more.
The final, now what is this?
Give your life to others.
give your life to others.
We have small groups to meet all throughout the week on campus, outside of campus.
And for some of you, you're isolated spiritually.
You're like, I can do this Jesus thing by myself.
I don't need other people.
I'm good.
But the reality is that you're not good.
Go back to the Welcome Center and get one of those brochures about small groups.
Come talk to me after I work with small groups here at the church.
Get in biblical communities you can serve.
Also, another great practical step here could be is that you get involved in the mission conference coming up next week, our summit, our mission summit.
What a great opportunity to give your life to others and learn what that could look like in your life.
All right, the big idea of the morning, big idea of the morning.
What we consume in life will determine what or who we live for
What we consume devour in life, what we consume in life will determine what or who we live for.
Final scripture, Hebrews 12, 28 through 29, Hebrews 12, 28 through 29 says this, therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, they by realize this kingdom of this world is shaking all around us.
This is shaking.
There's a greater kingdom that will not be shaken.
Let us be thankful.
Focus on that kingdom.
By it, we serve God acceptably with reverence and awe.
For our God is a consuming fire.
He's a consuming fire.
Do you remember the word canah?
The word zeal?
Do you remember one of the definitions?
A fire-like devotion?
A firelike canna, a consuming fire.
When we commit to Jesus, we devote ourselves to Jesus.
He wants to be devoted to us.
And we don't have to live this life alone.
He wants to devour our sin, our hopelessness, our purposelessness, our shame, our fear.
He was the final sacrifice.
He paid for it by himself to make us right with him.
He did not gouges or take advantage of us, but he rescued us.
Can we celebrate that this morning?
Come on.
Amen.
What we consume in this life will determine what or who we are living for.
Let's all stand our feet.
So bow our heads and close our eyes.
Some pray.
Maybe you're here and you're not a Christian.
And you want to become a Christian.
I'm going to give you a chance right now to do it.
Just like someone did that with me when I was 13 years old.
I just want you to open up your heart to him.
Tell him I just want you.
Tell him I am a sinner.
I need a savior.
Thank him for dying on the cross for your sins.
Say this to him.
I turn from my sin and I turn to you.
And say this, forgive me of all of my sins.
Fill me with your Holy Spirit.
Thank you for eternal and abundant life you promise.
With your heads bowed and eyes closed.
If you did that, will you just raise your hand?
Don't see it.
Amen.
Right on.
Who else?
Amen.
Keep them up.
Come on, we'll see them.
Raise them up high.
Don't be ashamed.
The zealously raised they hand up.
Amen.
All around the room.
Soundlessly.
Hey man, Jesus, thank you.
With your heads bowed and eyes closed.
If you're a Christian, will you just be gut level honest with him and say, Jesus, this thing has to go in my life.
Help me, drive it out, turn it over in my life.
I give it to you.
I can't do it anymore.
I can't live with it anymore.
Tell him that.
Jesus, thank you for what you're doing around this room.
For this holy moment.
Lord, will you be a consuming fire in this church?
Will you consume this house with your truth and hope and life and meaning and presence?
Will you drive out and overturn supernaturally what you can do, only can do?
We desire to worship you in reverence and awe.
We want to be caught up in you in your presence right now.
Right now.
In Jesus name I pray.
Amen.
I'm caught up in your presence.
I just wanna sit here out of your feet.
I'm caught up in this holy
Oh I'm not here to bless you Jesus you don't owe me anything more than
I just want you And I'm sorry And I'm just going through the motions I'm sorry And I'm just saying another song Take me back to where we started I opened up my heart
I'm sorry When I've come with my agenda I'm sorry I forgot that you're enough Take me back to where we started I opened up my heart to you
God up in your presence.
And I just want to stand here out of your feet.
I'm caught up in this holy moment.
Jesus you don't owe me anything The more than anything that you can do I just want you I just want nothing now
Nothing else, nothing else they'll do.
I just want you, nothing else, nothing else, nothing else, nothing else they'll do.
I just want to sit here at your feet.
I'm caught up in this holy
the blessings Jesus you don't owe me anything more than anything that you can do I just want
Anybody can assume this morning with Jesus?
Come on, can we celebrate Him?
There were people all around the room that raised their hands.
Praise God, the zeal of raising your arm.
I wanna encourage you, we're gonna have some counselors on the front steps.
The last thing you wanna do if you gave your life to Jesus this morning is keep it to yourself.
Tell a friend, tell me, tell someone up here, go back to the welcome desk, tell the person who you came with, tell your husband,
Tell someone what just happened.
If you also want prayer, you can come up and talk to someone too.
Come on up, counselors, come up on the steps, come on.
If you want prayer, you can come up and talk to them too.
Or you have a decision you made about something in the future.
They'd love to talk to you.
Man, it's been so good to be together in God's house.
A lot of zeal here, a lot of excitement.
You get an opportunity to continue your worship as you leave here.
You can drop a financial offering off in the boxes all around the building or you can go online and do that yourself.
And again, thank you for those who financially give to help us do what we need to do here.
Before I go, I can't do it like our pastor does, but I'm gonna tell you, we as a church love you.
You're loved.
And I hope that you take that love and you share that love with the world around you and you share that zeal with the world around you.
the kingdom that's shaking all around us.
Let the love of Jesus consume the kingdoms as we walk into those kings all week long.
Amen, everybody?
Westwood, we are six.